---
title: Accounts
description:
lang: en
sidebar: true
---

# Accounts

**Original author:** Wil Barnes  
**Link:** https://kauri.io/ethereum-101-part-4-accounts-transactions-and-me/7e79b6932f8a41a4bcbbd194fd2fcc3a/a

Ethereum accounts are a fundamental piece of Ethereum. They allow you to interact with Ethereum, ETH and most importantly for development, smart contracts.

## Prerequisites

You should have a clear understanding of blockchain and Ethereum before diving deeper on Ethereum accounts.

## Types of account

There are two different types of accounts:

- Externally owned accounts (acronym: EOA)\*\*
- Contract accounts

Externally owned accounts are controlled by their private keys, while contract accounts are controlled by their contract EVM [bytecode](#).

**Address (do not send money to this address, it may be lost):**
`0xab6291d3B3290e7F2287dE751Fb5FDDA4B91ebB6`
The address is your public facing element of your account. If you are to receive Ether, you will direct that transaction to this address. The address is simply the Keccak-256 hash of the public key, which is not listed in this section.

**Private Key (with this key, you have control over the above address):**
`aa50f1a46ecb19a2464cfdd43f0d31ad32f4bb598df3ed5a448a43ab5d02f0ef`

## Supplemental technical information

Mnemonic Seed Phrases & BIP39
Some decentralized apps and wallets use mnemonic phrases or JSON files for account recovery (e.g. MetaMask uses a 12 word seed phrase for account restoration).

`lamp spirit wonderful aeroplane field dream ten dogs never base form explode`

Similar as you would with private keys, mnemonic phrases and keystore files (typically a JSON file) should be duly protected.

Should someone learn your mnemonic phrase or obtain your JSON keystore file, they may be able to recover your account and gain access to your funds.

## Asymmetric cryptography

Accounts are derived through complex and inherently secure asymmetric cryptography. The creation of an Ethereum account is a three step process:

1. A 64 character hexadecimal private key is randomly generated.
2. The public key is generated by taking the 64 character hexadecimal private key and applying elliptic curve multiplication (this is an irreversible calculation).
3. Take the Keccak-256 hash of the newly generated public key, take the final, furthest right 40 characters of this hash, and prefix these 40 characters with ‘0x’. This is the account address.

Using our accounts’ derived asymmetric private key and address, we can begin executing transactions. The term transaction refers to a signed data package that is sent from an externally owned account. Similar to a transaction, a message call is produced by a contract, not an externally owned account. Contracts can even make message calls to other contracts. The white paper describes contracts not as objects that must be fulfilled, but instead as a block of code on the blockchain that is executed when called by an externally owned account or another contract (via a message call).

## Accounts and transactions

In the event we are conducting a raw transaction between two external accounts, the process is straightforward. First, we need three parameters:

- the account that is sending the transaction
- the account that will be receiving the transaction value
- and the value of the transaction.

Additional parameters are required: nonce, gasLimit, and the gasPrice, though we do not need to derive these values on our own as they will be populated by the geth console.

- **nonce:** this is the transaction count of the account sending the transaction (not to be confused with the Proof of Work nonce, as this is a different nonce).
- **gasLimit (STARTGAS):** an upfront value paid by the externally owned account setting the maximum price paid to execute the transaction; if all gas is exhausted the transaction is reverted back to its previous state. Any unused gas is typically returned to the transaction sender.
- **gasPrice (GASPRICE):** the value of each computation step (an EVM opcode) paid by the externally owned account to execute the transaction.

Read more on [transactions](/en/edn/beginners/blockchain/transactions/)
