---
title: ERC-777 Token Standard
description:
lang: en
sidebar: true
---

## Introduction? {#introduction}

ERC-777 is a fungible token standard improving the existing [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) standard.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

To better understand this page, we recommend you first read about [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/)

## Body {#body}

## Breaking down the definition {#breaking-down-the-definition}

Token standards describe how a smart contract should be implemented so that it is compatible with other smart contracts and clients know how to interact with it.

A smart contract that implements the ERC-20 standard has methods to keep track of generated tokens, send tokens to addresses and get total supply of tokens. For a full list of methods see [EIP-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20).

The tokens generated by ERC-777 compatible smart contracts are [fungible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fungibility) that is they are equivalent and interchangeable.

### What improvements does ERC-777 propose over ERC-20? {#what-improvements-does-erc-777-propose-over-erc-20}

The ERC-777 provides the following improvements over ERC-20.

### Hooks {#hooks}

Hooks are a function described in a smart contract that will be called when tokens are sent or received. Essentially, smart contracts can react to incoming or outgoing tokens.

The hooks are registered and discovered using the [ERC-1820](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1820) standard.

##### Why are hooks great? {#why-are-hooks-great}

1. They allow to send tokens to a contract and notify it in a single transaction, unlike [ERC-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20) which requires a double call (`approve`/`transferFrom`) to achieve this.
2. Prevent accidental transfers to non ERC-777 smart contracts. In cases where the receiving contract has not registered a hook thus not compatible with ERC-777. The sending contract will abort the transaction.
3. Hooks can reject transactions.

#### Decimals {#decimals}

The standard also improves the confusion around `decimals` in ERC-20. Thus, making development a bit easier.

#### Backwards compatibility with ERC-20 {#backwards-compatibility-with-erc-20}

It means that ERC-777 contracts can be interacted with as if they were ERC-20 contracts.

## Further Reading {#further-reading}

[EIP-777: Token Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-777)
