---
title: Decentralized finance (defi)
description: An overview of defi on Ethereum
lang: en
template: use-cases
sidebar: true
image: ../../assets/use-cases/defi.png
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoints:
  [
    "A global, open alternative to the current financial system.",
    "Probably the biggest use case for Ethereum right now.",
    "Powered by smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain.",
  ]
---

Defi is probably the biggest Ethereum success story so far.

## What's defi?

Defi is a collective term for products that are making financial products and services accessible to anyone who can use Ethereum – anyone with an internet connection. With defi, there are no centralized authorities who can block payments or deny you access to anything.

There's a booming crypto economy out there, where you can lend, borrow, long/short, earn interest, and more. Crypto-savvy Argentinians have used defi to escape crippling inflation. Companies have started streaming their employees their wages in real time. Some folks have even taken out and paid off loans worth millions of dollars without the need for any personal identification.

Right now there's ~ 40 billion dollars worth of crypto in defi applications. This is defi.

## What can you do with defi?

Defi currently replicates everything on offer with the traditional financial system and some things that are completely new.

### Global peer-to-peer payments

As a blockchain, Ethereum is designed for sending transactions in a secure and global way. Payments go directly from one account to another in a matter of minutes (usually).

### Stablecoins

There are tokens that exist on Ethereum that keep their value relatively consistent. The price of ETH can fluctuate which makes it hard to use like regular currency.

Coins like Dai or USDC have a value that stays within a few cents of a dollar. This makes them perfect for earning or retail.

[More on stablecoins](/stablecoins)

### Decentralized exchanges

todo

### Decentralized lending/borrowing

todo

#### Flash loans

Hold onto your hat for this one! Although this is not advised for new or non-technical users... it is possible to take out huge loans without putting up any collateral whatsoever.

It works on the premise that the loan is taken out and paid back within the same transaction. If it can't be paid back, the transaction reverts as if nothing ever happened.

This means a lot of logic must be included in a very bespoke transaction. A simple example might be someone using a flash loan to borrow as much of an asset at once price so they can sell it on a different exchange where the price is higher.

So in a single transaction the following happens:

- User borrows X amount of $asset at $1.00 from exchange A
- User sells X $asset on exchange B for $1.10
- User pays back loan to exchange A
- User keeps profit minus the transaction fee

If suddenly exchange B's supply dropped and the user wasn't able to buy enoughh to cover the original loan, the transaction would simply fail.

### Decentralized derivatives

todo

### Decentralized asset management

todo

### No-loss lotteries

No-loss lotteries are funa and innovative new savings strategy. Buy tickets for a lottery that you can't lose. Only one winner is chosen every week, but your tickets roll over and you can withdraw at any time. The prize pot is generated by the interest gained on all the tickets.

## How does defi work?

Defi uses cryptocurrencies and smart contracts to provide services that don't need intermediaries. In today's financial world, financial institutions acts as guarantors of transactions. This gives these institutions immense power – even the power to stop you making transactions because your money flows through them. And discrimination is rife – billions of people around the world don't have access to a bank account.

In defi, a smart contract replaces the financial institution in the transaction. A smart contract is a type of Ethereum account that can hold funds and can send/refund them based on certain conditions. No one can alter that smart contract when it's live. So it will always run exactly as programmed.

A pocket money contract that's programmed to send money from Account A to Account B every Friday will only ever do that. So long as Account A has the required funds. No one can change the contract and add Account C as a recipient to steal funds.

## Ethereum and defi

Ethereum is the perfect foundation for defi for a number of reasons:

- No one owns Ethereum or the smart contracts that live on it – this gives everyone an opportunity to use defi.
- Defi products all speak the same language behind the scenes: Ethereum. This means many of the products can be used in tandem. You can lend tokens on one platform, and exchange the interest-bearing token in a different market on an entirely different application. This is like being able to cash your Starbucks loyalty points in at your bank.
- Tokens and cryptocurrency are built into Ethereum, a shared ledger – keeping track of tranactions and ownership is kinda its thing.
- Ethereum allows complete financial freedom – none of these products ever take custody of your funds. You are always in control.

You can think of defi in layers:

1. The blockchain – Ethereum contains the transaction history and state of accounts.
2. The assets – ETH and the other tokens (currencies).
3. The protocols – a smart contract that provideds the functionality, for example the service that allows for decentralized lending of the assets.
4. The applications – the products we use to manage and access the protocols.

## Opportunities and risks

At such an early stage in defi, there are both opportunities and risks. Make sure you're aware of both before diving in.

### Opportunities

- **Combination opportunities** – the system is open, new products are coming to market all the time that combine existing services to unlock new opportunities.
- **Greater efficiency** – smart contracts remove the need for custodians and escrows reducing transaction time and cost without compromising security.
- **More transparency** – everything is public, this makes auditing and understanding risks a lot easier. If something does go wrong, investigations are far simpler.
- **More accessible** – defi allows you to use these markets without giving away your identity. These protocols are open to everyone an can't discriminate based on personal details.

### Risks

- **Smart contracts**
  - they are the backbone of defi so if there a smart contract bug it poses a big risk to the protocol's users.
  - At this early stage, you are at a disadvantage if you can't read the code and verify its safety yourself. Instead you must trust the protocol and any third party security audits.
  - one smart contract bug can have a devastating effect within the ecosystem if other products rely on that smart contract. This is one of the downsides of Ethereum's combination oppportunities.
- **Admin keys**
  - oten teams will set up their smart contracts with admin keys. These keys allow them to upgrade the contract and shut it down in an emergency. If a malicious actor got these keys they could potentially drain funds from the contract.
- **External data**
  - a lot of defi relies on external data sources, provided by oracles. If an oracle's data is compromised...
- **Scalability**
  - demand raises tx fees which price some people out of defi
-

- a single smart contract bug can have a devastating effect within the ecosystem because it's so composable
- external data: oracles introduce centralization
- fiat on/off-ramps: for the most part, getting funds out of defi into the traditional financial system requires KYC and regulation
- scalability: rises in transaction fees favour wealthy participants and price some people out of the ecosystem
  - layer 2 solutions put atomicity and composability at risk

## How to defi

Before you try out any defi products, remember that we are in the early stages of this financial revolution. Only spend what you can afford and do your research.

### Transaction fees

Defi relies on Ethereum to keep transactions secure. Ethereum security comes at a cost. The people who do the work to make Ethereum safe, known as miners, must be incentivised. Transaction fees are part of the incentive for securing Ethereum – think of it like a tip to the person processing your transaction. However, this fee is variable and increases when the network is busy. After all, miners need to prioritise all the pending transactions and they're incentivised to choose transactions which include a larger tip. This is known in the community as "gas" as it "fuels" the transaction.

<InfoBanner isWarning emoji=":fuel_pump:">
    Using defi products right now is expensive. The network is in such high demand that gas is very expensive. The community is working on ways to improve the network's capacity, but don't be surprised if you see gas prices exceed your transaction value. 
    <a href="https://www.ethgasstation.info/">Check gas prices</a> [What's a normal amount?]
</InfoBanner>

### On/off-ramps

Getting funds in or out of defi into the traditional financial system will require a ramp.

### The defi essentials

- a wallet – you'll need one to connect to applications and manage your funds.
- some Eth – you'll need to pay transaction fees
- some time – don't defi in a rush, take time to read everything, double check everything. With greater financial freedom comes some risk. In most cases sending funds to the wrong place is irreversible.

### Do a token swap

todo – is it worth it with current gas prices?

### Earn some interest

todo
