---
title: How to "create" an Ethereum account
description: A step-by-step guide on Ethereum account creation using a wallet.
lang: en
---

# How to "register" an Ethereum account

Anyone can create an Ethereum account for free with a specific type of app commonly known as a wallet. Wallets create and secure the keys that let you hold, send and receive crypto. You can also connect to projects on Ethereum that will let you trade NFTs, exchange tokens, access games, and much more.

Unlike opening a new account with a company, creating an Ethereum account is done freely, privately and without asking permission. Accounts are controlled by keys that your wallet software helps you create, and are not issued by a third party, nor stored in a central registry.

## Step 1: Browse our list of wallets

A wallet is like an online bank account for Ethereum. There are dozens of different wallets to choose from—mobile, desktop, or even browser extensions. Our curated list of trusted wallets is a good place to start.

<ButtonLink to="/wallets/find-wallet/">
  Find a wallet
</ButtonLink>

## Step 2: Choose a wallet that suits your needs

If you are new, you can activate the “New to crypto” filter to view only those wallets that include all necessary features we think would be particularly suitable for beginners. There are also other profile filters to cater to your needs.

## Step 3: Download and install your wallet app

Once you have decided on a specific wallet, visit their official website or app store, download and install it. All of them should be free.

## Step 4: Open the app and generate or import your Ethereum account

The first time you open your new wallet you might be asked to choose between creating a new account or importing an existing one. Click on the new account creation.

## Step 5: Store your recovery phrase

Some apps will request you to save a secret recovery phrase. Keeping this secret recovery phrase safe is extremely important! Any person who knows this secret recovery phrase can take control of all your accounts generated by these words. Never share this with anyone. This phrase should contain 12 to 24 randomly generated words (the order of the words matters).

Once you have saved your recovery phrase you should see your wallet dashboard with your balance. Check out our guide: [how to use a wallet.](/guides/how-to-use-a-wallet)

 <br />
 
<InfoBanner shouldSpaceBetween emoji=":eyes:">
  <div>Want to learn more?</div>
  <ButtonLink to="/guides/">
    See our other guides
  </ButtonLink>
</InfoBanner>

## Frequently asked questions

### Are my wallet and my Ethereum account the same?

No, just like online banking you can have many different accounts all stored in one wallet application. Your 12 or 24 word phrase secures them all: it is like the seed of a big tree (which is why you must keep it safe). Each branch of the tree holds a key, and every key is one of your accounts. If you lose access to the wallet (i.e. your tree gets cut down), you can always restore all your different accounts using other software and the same seed (which will always grow the same tree).

### Can I send bitcoin to an Ethereum address, or ether to a Bitcoin address?

No you cannot. Bitcoin and ether exist on two separate networks (i.e. different blockchains), each with their own bookkeeping models and address formats. There have been various attempts to bridge the two different networks, of which the most active one is currently [Wrapped bitcoin or WBTC](https://www.bitcoin.com/get-started/what-is-wbtc/). This is not an endorsement, as WBTC is a custodial solution (meaning a single group of people controls certain critical functions) and is provided here for informational purposes only.

### If I own an ETH address, do I own the same address on other blockchains?

You can use the same address on all EVM compatible blockchains (if you have the type of wallet with a recovery phrase). This [list](https://chainlist.org/) will show you which blockchains you can use with the same address. Some blockchains, like Bitcoin, implement a completely separate set of network rules and you will need a different address with a different format. If you have a smart contract wallet you should check its product website for more info on which blockchains are supported.

### Is having my own wallet safer than keeping my funds on an exchange?

Yes, this is a much safer option because nobody else will have access to your funds. There are unfortunately many examples of failed exchanges that filed for bankruptcy resulting in users' losing their savings which were being held in custody. Hacks, frozen accounts, or blocked withdrawals are some other common risks. Owning a wallet (with a recovery phrase) is the best way to safeguard your assets. Nonetheless, a poorly backed up recovery phrase potentially exposes you to more risks as compared to having your keys managed by an exchange. Make sure to store your recovery phrase well.

### If I lose my phone/hardware wallet, do I need to use the same wallet app again to recover the lost funds?

No, you can use almost any wallet as the recovery process is largely standardized. This means that you can put the same 12 or 24 word phrase into most wallets and they will restore your same account. Be careful if you ever need to do this: it is best to make sure you are not connected to the internet when recovering your wallet so that your recovery phrase is not accidentally leaked. It is often impossible to recover lost funds without the recovery phrase.
